---
layout: post
title: Prologue
date: 2026-02-20
description: Along with the thought from thoughts to language
tags: essay language
---
#### Howdy, readers!
I'd like to call this blog space a **project**. A project to write about my thoughts and leave them as a record, mainly for my future self as a reader, but also to inspire other people who are in research, writing, or who simply enjoy reading someone's observations about the world.

The reason why I'm tagging this small webpage and these pieces of writing as grand "project" mainly stems from my language background. I was born and raised in South Korea, with Korean as my first language. Before entering college, I'd never imagined myself speaking anything other than Korean as my main language of daily conversation.

A small fortune here is that I have been exposed to English since I was very young — English had been a part of the mandatory curriculum since I was in 3rd grade. But honestly speaking, it was far outside the boundary of my interest. Let's put it this way: I've seen multiple math nerds in school. They were super cool kids who understand the abstract concepts and were proficient at playing with them. I've seen Korean nerds as well. In fact, I identified myself as one of them and was even proud of being so, since I viewed ourselves as emotionally rich and intelligent to express our thoughts and feelings in much deeper resolution. But English nerds? Well, first of all, I'd barely seen any, and second of all, 'Hmm... what's cool about being good at English?'

Things flipped dramatically as I decided to live in the United States for a year, studying at Georgia Tech as an exchange student. When I first arrive in Atlanta, I realized I didn't even know how to order coffee in English. It was very uncanny, especially since I'd been learning English ever since I was a nine-year-old. I had even taken college-level classes in English. My TOEFL score was good enough to allow me to apply for this exchange program. But all those things I just laid out were focused on academic English. In real-life scenes in the United States, you are supposed to speak something different.

This caused me some practical problems that bothered me a lot in my early phase as a non-native exchange student. As soon as I landed at Atlanta airport —first time breathing the air in the States! Yay! — I realized my unskilled communication caused a serious issue in completing the apartment lease. It was as late as 10 pm, with two huge suitcases by my side, I realized I had no shelter to lay my exhausted body. I spent the night homeless in midtown Atlanta . What an ultimate American experience a first-time newcomer can have! I was finally able to win my bedroom key late the next afternoon, after a long, tedious quarrel with the leasing officer. Not only did the officer have a hard time understanding my Korean accent, but also I couldn't get her Southern accent. I later learned that the accent I heard in my childhood English class was only spoken by white people in Boston.

Despite all the awkward and unpleasant struggles, I would describe being proficient in a second language after you're mature enough to observe the evolution of your language ability is a truly enjoyable journey. It's fascinating to observe your second language space emerge and being more and more independent from the space of your mother tongue.

What do I mean by *independent*? Well, before talking about that, I would like to differentiate thoughts from words or languages.

<div class="dots-divider"></div>

#### Relationship between thoughts and languages

Thought is something very abstract. It not only includes logical thinking that you build step-by-step but also embraces feelings and emotions. As a neuroscientists, I would describe it as a pattern of neuronal firing in your brain.

On the other hand, language is a tool for expressing these thoughts. (In fact, there are multiple ways of expressing your thoughts, aside from language: we can dance, draw, sing, or even wink. There is extremely interesting line of research employing different modes of expression done by an excellent faculty member in my department. Shout out to Dr. Judy Fan!!) People sometimes ask me whether I think in Korean or English. I think this question doesn't quite make sense. I don't necessarily think in either Korean or English. I just... feel the thoughts without wording them.

A caveat here. Since language is one way of expressing abstract thoughts, it often does not represent them fully.
It's this simple: Can we explain what the color red is like to a blind person? Well, we can explain the wavelength of the light. We can say it is FF0000 in hex code and (1, 0, 0) in RGB. But is that truly representing red? No, there's something that each description misses. This is where a struggle of many bilinguals come from: "I don't like what I just said in English. That's not quite accurate description of what I'm thinking. If I were to speak Korean, I could've described my thought more precisely... Darn!"


<div class="dots-divider"></div>

#### Relationship between different languages

Learning a second language is totally different from learning your mother tongue, because the language you newly learn highly depends on the languages you already speak. On the first day of my English class, the teacher taught me that "*Hello* means *안녕하세요*!" I also remember that I had a workbook full of widely used English words alongside Korean words with the same (or, I should say, the most similar) meanings.

The key point I wanted to make here is that, my English skills were initially built upon a pre-existing language foundation---Korean. My communication in English was impossible without Korean playing a mediator role. When I wanted to express something in English, I first conceived a thought, then put that thought into Korean, and then translated it into English. It was extremely slow and inaccurate, as I mentioned earlier, putting thoughts into words using language inherently causes inaccuracy. Then you pass that already imperfect expression of your thought through the channel of another language, which adds even more inaccuracy.

But don't worry, language learners! As I described above, I found learning a language to be a process of slowly but certainly moving away from this double-filtering process, developing the new language as an independent means of expressing your thoughts. This process is interesting: as it goes on, you start to suppress the circuit responsible for the other language you're not actively using at the moment, rather than actively relying them as a mediator. For example, now I find it difficult to text in Korean while speaking to my friends in English.

The last thing I want to share here is that the language does not only function as a mere means of expressing your internal thoughts. It also works the other way around: language plays extensive role in interpreting the external world and further shapes how you think, because it becomes the semantic way you use to describe your world.


<div class="dots-divider"></div>

#### Conclusion

For all the thoughts I laid out above, I am very interested in solidifying and extending the English-language space in my mind. I would love to learn and discover more diverse ways of describing my internal world using this language, so that my words reflect my inner world with greater resolution, and conversely, so that I can think more broadly through my extended language. I started reading books, mostly memoirs and novels, in English. I took a poetry writing class — the class full of older ladies, mostly Stanford staff members  — and hearing their poetic descriptions of the Stanford campus and the world was such an interesting experience.

Lastly, *this blog.* This project is another effort. An effort with hope that I would be expressing my true heart better and staying closely connected with the people I care about.

Finally, dear my fellow language learners: everybody, including native speakers, speak a different version of language. As Wittgenstein discussed, everyone plays a different language game. What we call proficiency is not necessarily about speaking like one particular native speaker with the exact same mental dictionary, tone, accent and voice.

We can be proud of how we put our thoughts using our own language, because it is very unique to each of us. That's the beauty of language.


<div class="dots-divider"></div>
#### Acknowledgment

Before I sign off, I would like to write a few more words to thank my friends back in Atlanta for being extremely open-minded and understanding.
