---
layout: post
title: Between Idealism and Reality
date: 2024-02-02
description: My Journey in Academia
tags: research personal essay
---

<!-- # Prologue
### Along with the thought from thoughts to language
 -->

These are unstructured thoughts on how I came to neuroscience/cognitive science and how my relationship with it has evolved. Hope readers enjoy it (if any).

<div class="dots-divider"></div>

At the tender age of 15, I got my first unofficial job at a wedding hall. A school friend had introduced me, saying, “I know the manager. You can just show up. No contracts or paperwork needed.” A few days after washing dishes for six hours straight, I got my first paycheck that was well below minimum wage. I called the manager, argued, and lost miserably. He knew that underage kids without legal documents didn’t want their parents involved. He also knew that using us was cheaper than buying a dishwasher, and that we couldn’t quit despite this unpleasant reality. He was, truly, a competent manager who ran his business in a cost-efficient way.


Like many teenagers, my high school life was marked by ambivalence—a mix of anger toward the seemingly unfair world and a strong desire to thrive in it. Although news media and drama series portrayed a college degree as a ladder to success, peers at my school were rarely interested in pursuing it. And that was not necessarily because of bad grades, but rather because making money seemed more practical. “If you go to college, you lose money. But if you get a job, you make money.” Many adults echoed similar sentiments, though in a more organized, experience-based way. Intellectuals, they said, were hypocrites who talked about ideals that didn’t matter in real life and exploited others in the process. They saw education as a corrupting force, yet paradoxically blamed their hardships on not having had access to it. So, is college good or bad? I wasn’t sure.


Still, I was an iconoclast who stuck to studying as my path. This stubbornness, which largely shaped my life in hindsight, was not the result of a sophisticated calculation of how much benefit it could bring me in the long run. Rather, it came from something more immediate: concrete solace in momentarily turning my attention away from a chaotic world, filled with things like the competent manager, friends dropping out of school saying there was no hope in school, and the malaise of not knowing which path was right. In fact, I didn’t choose neuroscience out of some grand vision. I stumbled upon a public lecture about action potentials, ion channels, and neurotransmitters, and found myself captivated. The brain, and nature more broadly, seemed to follow rules. There was tangible order that I could grasp if I took some time and effort. So, whenever the world seemed absurd, I immersed myself in a deep sea of scientific imagination. I loved the questions neuroscientists asked. I loved spending time pondering and talking about them. I had a stubborn personality along with a childlike hope: one day, I would become a neuroscientist.

<div class="dots-divider"></div>

After a few years of hard work, I got into KAIST. College life was entirely different from high school. For one, none of the students I met had worked for money but rather spent their time learning to play the violin or tennis in high school. That disparity upset me, so I clinged again to consolation of studying. But even neuroscience proved less tidy than I’d envisioned. Many studies once considered “gold standards” were easily refuted and quietly faded from memory. The order I had admired now seemed more fragile. Still, that was fine for me if that’s how science evolves. Or perhaps I should say it’s even more exciting this way. Science is about finding what’s most plausible, rather than what’s definitively true, and there is always room for revision and openness to more sophisticated views.


What truly puzzled me was how academia seemed to channel intellectual engagement into narrow, achievement-focused paths. After undergrad, you go to grad school. Then a PhD. Then a job, promotion and tenure. Then awards, patents, and fancy journals. It’s a ladder of accomplishments. Even work that didn’t start with achievement in mind often ends up shaped so, because anything that doesn’t contribute to your CV is often disregarded. What surprised me most was how some researchers didn’t seem to think deeply about their own beliefs when setting hypotheses and developing them into papers. Instead, they leaned toward whatever was likeliest to yield publishable results that would impress editors and reviewers. But where is the joy I had felt as a teenager? That joy was the only reason I chose this path…

<div class="dots-divider"></div>

Please understand that I’ve just graduated college. My insight is subjective and incomplete, and the story is far from over (I definitely have too few observations to generalize!). This essay is simply a record of my thoughts at this early stage in my career, and I believe it would be fun to see how my thoughts will evolve over time! For now, I have two ideas that I hold onto and would like to clarify here: First, I don’t believe the academic system, or the people within it, are wrong or corrupt. Most are doing their best, and their work genuinely advances the field. Second, and this may seem contradictory to the first, I don’t think my younger self was naïve. That idealistic passion shaped who I am now, and I’m genuinely happy with where I’ve arrived.


So, here’s my inconclusive conclusion: I’ll stay sharp on understanding how systems shape people’s behavuor as well as mine. At the same time, I’ll personally try to keep the joy that first drew me to this field. The joy wasn’t professionalized, but was strong enough to push me beyond the boundaries of what people around me thought was normal. If I can protect that spirit, I’ll never regret the day in tenth grade when I decided to become a neuroscientist. I may not change the world, but I can change mine, right?